hello this is Alex Burkett and you're
listening to the long game podcast in
this episode I'm talking to Bernard hang
Bernard is the co-founder of clear scope
an extremely popular content
optimization tool he also founded an SEO
consultancy mushy labs and in his past
played professional online poker which
during the episode will become apparent
Bernard has built and marketed clear
scope to the point where it's basically
ubiquitous among the smartest content
marketers and seos that I know that tool
is super amazing and we use it with our
clients in this conversation we're going
to talk about poker strategy and systems
and how these mental models can
translate into business and SEO strategy
and how they have for Bernard as he's
built clear scope we also covered
Bernard's process for learning new hard
skills such as sales and product growth
how he'd build a Blog from scratch if he
were to launch one today and how to
determine which clients or customers are
the right fit for for your business and
how to actually Market to them once you
know this episode gives you a really
good Glimpse at how Berard thinks about
business mental models systems uh over
kind of individual actions and content
marketing and SEO in general and because
of that you're going to love it now the
first few minutes we talk poker I have a
little poker game coming up with Bernard
in a couple weeks so I'm a little
nervous so I asked him his tips it gets
a little uh in the weeds here so it's
going to be super interesting to a
select few people Bill King uh but past
that you're going to find tons of
applicable lessons even outside of the
world of gaming so without further Ado
here is my conversation with Bernard
[Music]
hang like it's like I think what's I
guess like stifling is like when I feel
like I don't have much freedom I think
that's like like the the the jarring
part about stuff it's like as long as
I'm having the freedom to do whatever
like I feel like doing for the most part
then I'm happy and I think recently a
lot of that is just sort of like resting
sleeping traveling that sort of like
deal but I don't know life is life is
complicated right yeah so it's more so
we can just jump in like I I we don't
have to like start the podcast in any
like you know delineated like clear way
so I'll I'll just have it recording and
we can kind of pick the point at which
it makes most sense but this is an
interesting topic you mentioned it's
when it's uh you feel kind of
constrained like when when you feel a
lack of Freedom so is that uh I mean
you're an entrepreneur I feel like I've
only known you as an entrepreneur is
that like why you picked that path or
like how did that um you know does that
play into it yeah I I suppose like that
that's part of it but I think that the
the other part of it that excites me
about
entrepreneurship is this like it's sort
of like this this like meta in that like
it's very rewarding for me to
like be able to make a bet on something
this ties into why I enjoy poker and
fighting games actually to a certain
degree is that there I get so much
thrill from making a bet on an idea a
concept something and walking away from
that that
being right because like the mode of
thinking that I was in was
correct and I think that that alongside
this like desire to forge my own path
and do whatever I want then like
culminates
into more of a like
path like finder type personality than
say some people would like make the
analogy like you know like a brick layer
is that like oh Somebody went and like
found the path and then you need people
to then go and like build the road to
the destination so I find that that's
like like what exhilarates me deep down
inside which is why I end
up at least in the past starting a lot
of things and being rather poor at
following through because I I suffer
from that shiny object like like
syndrome like oh but there's a shiny
object over there and I drop this shiny
object to chase after another shiny
object and sometimes a lot of the times
with without the follow through it's the
things don't go anywhere that's awesome
I I have a ton of questions to follow
that up but first did you mention did
you say fighting games or fighting
fighting games yeah like Street Fighter
Super Smash okay cool I just wanted
clarification there so okay so you
mentioned betting in relation to Poker
and fighting games and then betting in
relation to the business context do you
think those are the same style of bet
because in my experience it's like
business you almost need like this weird
irrational conv whereas in games you
need maybe like a more objective mindset
to pull yourself away and be able to
drop things do do you see any
delineation there or difference or how
do you look at
that yeah I think that's a that's a
great point I
think in games which is why a lot of
people find comfort in games is that you
the rules and the system of the game are
fairly constraining in that there's only
a finite amount of possibilities that
you can do because that's just like the
rules of the game whereas in business
it's in some ways infinite because life
is infinite and there's just all kinds
of different possibilities but I think
that there is a lot of similarities as
well because the fundamentals of
business business are product Market
business model distribution right and of
course you can like kind of tweak these
these knobs to your your favor to a
certain degree and I think like breaking
down the fundamentals of business into
simple Concepts that then you play is a
very like liberating feeling or else
it's easy to like drown in the infinite
possibility right we could be doing this
and we could be doing that we could be
allocating resources there and it's
oftentimes paralyzing because you might
go well there's all of these things how
do I choose like what is the right one
and then you start boiling it down to
say okay well you know customer
acquisition costs have to be lower than
lifetime value or else right the
business doesn't work and then you can
go okay well what are the channels where
we can like test to see you know what
customer acquisition costs are and
similarly like how those customers what
are their lifetime values in association
with the channel of distribution so I
think that breaking it down and making
it into a system is probably one of my
biggest takeaways actually from poker I
talk about it from time to time but the
gist of Poker is that people are not
losing poker players people employ
losing systems in poker and that is like
fundamentally how you improve at poker
or now you could then extrapolate that
and say at anything right when you say
when you say systems in poker and I
asked this because we're going to play
poker in two weeks and I'm probably
going to get crushed does that mean you
have simple guiding characteristics or
am I like taking that word to mean
something different like I know like
this is going to sound so dumb because I
don't even know the terminology but like
where you are on the table you're like
either like offensive or defensive
position right and you're going to like
basically make the first bet in relation
to that first position and that's like
basically a heris as part of a system is
that what you mean or do you have like
what does a system mean in a poker
context yes so a poker context in terms
of a system
is playing what poker players would call
hand ranges so you can imagine in a very
simplistic model that if you're playing
No Limit Texas hold them which is
commonly what people associate poker
with you get tell two cards and when you
look at pocket aces you're like wow
these are great right and when you get D
72 Au suit people say okay you know you
should probably get rid of that so what
then you could imagine is that in the
position that you're you're in which
rotates based on just the game that when
you're very early to act right as in the
first person to act that would be what
people call under the gun and if you're
the first person to act you basically
have to tell the rest of the table that
I have a strong hand without anybody
else indicating their information so
typically what you do is you play
tighter right and so you can imagine
then under the gun you should play less
hands because you have less information
about everybody else subsequently to you
now in a like in a system you would say
okay well if I'm going to play less
hands maybe I'm going to play the top
10% of hands under the gun in which case
you can go through and say okay pocket
aces yes part of the top temp % of hands
72 offit not part of the top 10% of
hands and so you would then throw in
different hands based on their strength
based on the position that you're at
right and so when then you're say losing
as a player you might say study your
game and say oh I opened under the gun
right first position to act with 5 seven
suited except 5 seven Suited is not that
good of a hand right it looks kind of
cool but and then you played it right
and so that would then be analyzing the
system and saying that okay I played a
top 30% hand in a position that I should
have only been playing a top 10% hand so
that's like level one like system poker
is get your own hand ranges down right
and know that if you're on the dealer
button which is the last to act ever um
I guess like pre- flop the big blind is
the last to act but if you're on the
button and it folds around to you you
should probably be opening top 60 70% of
your hands because you just get to act
last all of the time and that's like
positional and then you can take that
model and then flip it and say okay if
Alex here or Bernard here understands
poker systems then he understands that
he'll be playing tighter hands under the
gun right so if I see you and you open
under the gun then and I'm on the button
and I'm looking at 57 suited I might
like call you in that position because I
am a last to act and then B I understand
the system that you're in and then some
flop comes out and this is what people
will call like the first Rec cards and
they'll say it has a texture associated
with it so a texture there's a dry and a
wet right a dry is like King 72 so it's
dry in the sense that the top 10% of
hands are very binary when they hit a
king 72 you either have an ace king a
king queen a king Jack or you don't so
you have a good hand or a bad hand and
that's a dry board and then there's like
a wet board which is usually a Jack 10
and then maybe another Broadway like
Queen so if it's Queen Jack 10 and
you're opening top 10% of your hands
well Ace King is good Queen Jack is good
Jack 10 is good king queen is good right
so it's very wet in that you probably
connected with that board at some point
so based on those different like flop
textures right and based on what
percentage of hands I think you're
opening then I could have a fairly good
like expectation of where you sit on
that like board and then I can play your
your range rather than trying to say oh
I think you know Alex has Ace King here
I'd be like well his hand probably hits
his range like 60% of the time so with
57 I'm not going to bother whereas on a
king 72 I have mid pair and unless you
have Ace king king queen and you know
like there's 16 combo combinations of
Ace King and King Queen like possibility
wise and with one king out there' be 12
combinations so you could already see
like the math on the system is then like
okay 24 hand combinations Ace king king
queen hit this board and that's about
all that you could have whereas the rest
of the hands in the top 10% which there'
be like 136 of those don't hit this so I
could say with a fair amount of
confidence that I should call you down
if not try to Bluff you on the Flop on a
king 72 because probability wise you
probably didn't hit
it all right so I'm definitely gonna
have to relisten to this I've got a lot
more knowledge now than I had before I
started but one thing so I'm G to try to
relate to this to business too but one
thing I want to um confirm I may be
reading too much into this because I'm
also reading uh Annie Duke's book right
now how to decide so it's it's sort of
divorced from poker she obviously
learned a lot of this through her poker
uh days but like it's sort of just a
meta level like how do you make good
decisions and like one of her points is
like you can't really determine the
quality of a decision based on like one
single outcome so when you were saying
like you may start with a king pair and
like maybe that hand loses or like an
ace pair right like and that's that's a
good starter or like you could get that
seven2 and like you could get lucky and
win right like there's you know multiple
different variations of like the outcome
versus the input um so this is a concept
I think called resulting right when you
basically like judge decisions based on
the outcome not necessarily the input
data that you had so when you're talking
about Building Systems is it like are
you talking about basically making
better decisions based on input data um
or better decision quality not
necessarily just looking at each individ
individual outcome and then like looking
on a macro scale is this moving in the
right direction is the system working
overall not just one single point
decision absolutely absolutely so it's
it's like re-evaluating the framework of
thought that got you to the decision
that ultimately could have been good or
could have been bad right but really
it's reviewing the framework the model
that your your brain went through to say
okay right I am going to invest $50,000
in Google AdWords right it's like how
did you come to that decision right and
like oh well you know we ran a test
right with
$5,000 and we got back out
$110,000 it's like okay right that makes
a lot of sense as to why You' want to
then double your bet in Google adwards
but if you just arbitrarily said okay
let's make a bet on $50,000 and see
where it goes maybe that's okay too
because you just raised $550 million and
that's the kind of like bet sizing that
you want to play with but I think it's
it's more yeah around the like okay what
was the framework of thought that I had
going into this and is that a flawed
framework of thought right and basically
challenging yourself on on that
continually because there's so many I
think like misconceptions that we as
human beings are unconscious of or
perhaps conscious of but don't want to
change for whatever reason and it's sort
of just like okay is this is this
thought that I have still still relevant
and you know if that's help if that's
guiding your decision process and it's
not relevant or not working than you
know identifying that sooner get you to
your results
faster yeah so I can definitely see this
in the context of business now um I I'm
thinking about it from my domains like
my day job and experimentation that's
kind of the lens that I look at these
things through because it's such a it's
such a system you know it's every test
has the probability to win the
probability to lose and the probability
to detect whether it's it's a winner or
loser but then like the thing you can
control is like the well the analysis of
the test right but then like the ideas
that you're putting forth in the first
place and how you're prioritizing those
so in my day job that's something that
I'm trying to hammer home now is instead
of just putting random ideas on the
board all across the website all across
the landing pages let's hone in and
figure out like a decision- making
framework for how we bring test ideas in
the first place you know and then
there's a couple of criterias that you
can gauge like you know how certain this
feedback is or how how certain this this
data is that makes it a little bit more
confident of a test so it could be
something like a heuristic that's
something that maybe you've seen
patterns of this you know maybe it's
social proof you've seen this on case
studies before work or maybe it's
qualitative research right like that's a
pretty high uh Trust trustworthy piece
of evidence too like if you've seen this
in the data if you've seen somebody on a
survey say they're frustrated about this
or it could be that a subject matter
expert is like oh this is actually how
we should do things like those are all
various degrees of certainty and you can
bring those to the table when you
prioritize test ideas and I look at it
the same way when I do content strategy
actually it's like there's multiple
different ways you can build a system or
a strategy based on those input
variables of you know how high is your
domain rating what industry are you in
what are your competitors writing about
and and then you can basically take that
keyword research data that everybody
else has in ahfs or sem rush and you can
you can use it you can pipe it through
your own decision-making framework to
get better results on average you know
not every piece is going to rank but on
average you're hoping that that is a
better strategy absolutely absolutely
and then and then right it's from there
obviously repeating it enough such that
you have some amount of statistical
certainty that your your your data sound
and then being like okay did this work
as planned right and I think that that's
kind of where where I view this emerging
idea of of tackling zero search volume
intent to be very compelling it's
because we're seeing very low domain
Authority
websites punch above their weight right
like ranking a lot higher for
competitive queries that don't make that
much sense unless you really scrutinize
it and it's like oh you know SEO is dead
as like the title tag and it's sort of
this like perspective based piece and it
does really well or things to consider
before doing x and x having to be a very
challenging sort of like subject matter
like training for a triathlon or
starting a blog or starting your own
business and it's like okay by targeting
that intent then presumably we can rank
faster stronger and better then not have
to weigh as much in our domain Authority
and then you you quickly like test that
with five or 10 different pieces and say
okay you know is that was that true or
was that false and then right this is
back to the idea of like being a losing
poker player is that like people don't
suck at content they just employ a
losing content strategy right and their
content strategy that doesn't work and
they say oh man I'm like so bad
at content and it's like no no like just
the framework that you've been employing
has not been effective so let's like fix
that and see whether or not our results
change as a result of that that
particular shift in in thinking you're
speaking my language that's what I
always say is content programs fail
based on strategy people always point to
like oh the content quality is not there
the content promotion's not there and
it's like those are pieces that could
like proliferate from a Content strategy
but if your core assumptions are wrong
that's where it all breaks down and you
know what I see all the time is like
this idea of like losing one hand and
determining oh I'm a bad poker player
it's like you write five blog posts and
you determine oh content doesn't work
for us it's like it's it's a long game
there's you you need enough at at bats
you need enough iteration to see like oh
okay this actually doesn't work so I
feel like that's one of the biggest
mistakes that I see is just giving up
too soon and treating it like a very
short-term Channel or test absolutely
yeah I think that it's it's like
anything else it's like you when you
approach when I approach anything new
I'm just like okay I'm gonna suck at
this for a really long time and that's
part of the process so just accepting
that you're going to suck at whatever it
is that you do for a fair amount of time
before coming to then understanding the
true essence of what you're doing is
something that I think skill like people
who are skilled at learning have already
is completely
internalized and I remember very
distinctly when we were getting clear
scope off the ground I as the
non-technical co-founder was tasked with
customer development and finding well
new customers and talking to them and it
was like a rough many many months of
just getting rejected left and right and
one day after work after being I guess
told no like a lot of times I just like
remember going back to my apartment I
was like man this [__] sucks but then
I was like okay well like what what
about it like sucks right and it's like
like okay well like doing sales sucks
and I was like okay but why does doing
sales like suck and then I'm like okay
maybe it's because like I suck at sales
maybe it's because I actually don't like
doing sales or maybe it's because I'm
not finding success at sales which I
think is different than sucking at sales
right it's it's sort of like an outcome
versus like a skill or something like
that and so I was like okay well this is
very irritating and I'm very frustrated
but I'm not going to just jump to the
conclusion that I hate this because um
it's not working right I have to like
kind of rule out this idea that I hate
this because I'm not good at it first so
I just kept going I was like okay well
the only way to to Really validate that
is to to continually rule that out and
get good at sales so I got good at sales
and then and then it turned out like
okay this isn't actually that bad I
think I hated it because I wasn't
succeeding at it and I Al sucked at it
and so once I started like really doing
it well and succeeding at it I was like
oh okay yeah yeah no no like sales is is
fine um but I was in a miserable place
because I just wasn't good at it how did
you get good at sales or was it simply a
function of time and
pressure um that certainly I think what
kept me going however I think that and
this is like finally what I understand
what school is trying to do I was really
crappy at school graduated with like a
2.7 GPA barely got out but what books
and mentors and school I believe are
trying to instill in you as a person a
shortcuts in in learning right it's like
trying to say hey I through experience
studying whatever have learned that you
shouldn't put your fingers on a hot
stove and so don't don't do it right but
I feel like this is where in my opinion
School fails you is that for not you but
like a lot of different personality
types is that they don't really do a
good job hammering home like the why and
like whatever right they're just like no
like don't do that period and then you
know like it's on a test it's like
should you do this and you're like no no
false false we should not do that but it
doesn't really say like okay why
shouldn't you do it and so um that's
that's I think what you should do what I
like when I like go out now to like
learn anything new I I go and I say okay
like there are a crap ton of things that
I know that I don't know about doing X
and the best way that I found for myself
and this is going to vary from person to
person is to go out and ask the people
who are perceived to be the best at X
that I can get a hold of and say Hey you
know I just want 15 15 to 30 minutes to
to get your eyes and ears on X right and
as somebody who's been on the receiving
end and somebody who's also been on the
pitching end there is a world of
difference in the way that you ask that
right it's like you can go in and be
like hey Alex you know I've been I've
been an SEO for the last six months and
I've not been finding success this is
like the framework that I've like
identified that people are talking about
that I've been implementing and it for
whatever reason it's not working out I
have these different ideas about you
know like AB andc that I want to test
could you spare 20 minutes to to have a
chat and when you like see that sort of
pitch you're like all right like this
person is worth talking to because they
they're like they know my [__] and so so
um yeah that's that's like what I do is
like I go okay for for learning I like
then emailed a bunch of people and I was
like Hey how do you do sales right and
then I explained to them how I was
approaching sales I was like okay I'm
identifying the right Persona the right
type of company doing this kind of
segmentation then from a cold emailing
perspective I'm pulling their email from
these sources checking that those are
valid emails with these different
softwares putting them into this like
email sequencer and then this is like my
results and people came back and they're
like yeah do like wow you should be
teaching me how to do sales and I was
like oh okay well then I guess we've
like arrived at sort of the the way to
do that people are thinking about doing
it and so that's that's my opinion is
that for myself I know that I learn a
lot better through heris and experience
and people but I know some people who
learn phenomenally through books or
school or courses right and if that's
your jam it's like sort of go into those
channels understand what you're looking
for in that particular time frame is to
understand what you don't know about it
and then and then know that you know
you're going to suck at doing whatever
it is that you're going to do for a
while before you can then make I think a
accurate assessment about whether or not
you actually like doing whatever it is
that you were trying to learn or do
that's awesome that's really similar to
how I've approached things in life and
actually there's this book now that I
still haven't read but it's one of those
where the title I think just says it all
who not how uh so it's like right
instead of figuring out how to do
something you think about all right who
do I go to that's done this before and
like maybe you learn from him maybe you
hire him whatever it is but you're
thinking in terms of like the people
that can help you with that problem and
that's something that I've always done
just naturally because I'm like well it
makes no sense to Wade through all these
books that I haven't validated I don't
know if I can trust there's a big time
sync who knows when I can just like tap
somebody on the shoulder and then meet
them for coffee or just get them over
email and get that information firsthand
and then the second benefit of that is
that you build a network which is
clearly important especially if you're
an entrepreneur but for anybody um and
you do so naturally like you don't have
to go to networking events you just kind
of like one by one like just have good
interesting conversations
and the other thing there too is like it
depends on the space you're in uh I
found marketing a lot of the blog posts
out there are kind of [__] like it's
just like not a lot of information it's
like a lot of fluff right yeah um it's
filtered through um you know a writer
doing research that was written by other
writers who haven't done the thing that
they're writing about so you're
oftentimes not getting like firsthand
information yeah I found this firsthand
when I was like looking uh for
information on like how to write a
welcome email you know every article
starts with like what is a welcome email
and you know it's clearly written for
SEO and I'm like no no no I just want
somebody who's done this to tell me how
to do this but anyway I'm ranting a
little bit if you go to a conference and
get somebody at a happy hour or if you
go to coffee or to a lunch with somebody
you're usually getting pretty unfiltered
information it's it's quite a bit more
honest so I find that you can basically
ramp up and and basically take a
shortcut to the firsthand knowledge that
they have so I love that model yeah yeah
absolutely absolutely and I think after
you've done it a few times at least from
my experience you realize that
like they it's well a not that scary and
B there really isn't that much to why
somebody is really successful or good at
X Y or Z it's usually that they either
got really lucky worked really hard or a
combination of both and that's that's
like it it's like oh yeah you know how
did you get here it's like oh well I
woke up and did the same thing for the
last like five years it's like it is
true I feel like most things are simpler
than one would imagine in terms of like
at least they're not complex but they're
more difficult than people imagine so
it's like it's simple but difficult but
you listen to the like you know the
success stories and you're like oh
that's really straightforward all right
so I just have to do this yeah yeah yeah
yeah that's that's commonly like it yeah
you might get I think some shortcuts or
or like mental models to to help in
certain places which I think is good um
yeah I guess okay maybe when I was
thinking about it I was thinking about
it in terms of like marketing and sales
and like marketing and sales for the
most part I think like you just kind of
try things rapidly and kind of test Roi
and it's all more or less kind of
similar in fundamentals but I could
imagine how
I don't know something like creating art
would be a drastically different like
mental model shift that is different
than okay like you know I got I work
really hard and got really lucky perhaps
but I can't say that's probably true
yeah I'm not totally sure I was also
thinking programming may be the
exception there but I will say like
through my small adventures and like you
know learning R and python I like I
tried it for many years where I would go
through code code academy course after
like book and like learn all the theory
and then I would barely be able to write
a for Loop and then as soon as I just
like stopped overthinking it just
started writing code and Googling [__]
and then uh I got a code Mentor which is
like the who not how thing who could
basically look over my code and give me
pointers as I was going along then I
built things and it was like actually a
lot more simple granted my code was not
world class but it was a way that I
actually like just you know stopped
thinking and put things out there so I
do think it actually probably does work
for for other modalities and other kind
of Industries too I'm thinking about
like playing guitar right like you could
learn theory you could go to class you
could go to school and like sit there
and like learn all the books but at a
certain point you have to sit down and
you know hurt your fingers playing some
chords yeah yeah yeah yeah I sort of
more or less does feel like at least for
myself it's sort of like try it then go
find the the you know who to so that I
have more like interesting things to
talk about and then go back and try it
again it like works really well for me
because I think if you just go and find
a mentor and you're like hey you know
Teach Me guitar then they'll be like
okay well you know show me what you got
and if you're like well I got nothing
then there's like not a very deep
conversation to be had whereas if you
try it like okay you know I'm struggling
with you know this the shifting or
whatever then it's like they might be
able to say hey you're thinking about it
wrong right the way to think about it is
rhythm not tone or something like that I
don't know right I don't know anything
about
guitar so what does a day look like for
you now nowadays like what's what's a
day in the life at Clear scope A Day in
the Life at Clear scope yeah I would say
that it has drastically changed for me
recently because we are a very small
team we were three people all the way up
until the end of last year which a lot
of people thought was pretty crazy and
definitely was pretty crazy because I
was the soulle account manager for
thousands of users on top of doing demos
support requests all that like good
stuff and so brought in somebody to help
with customer success who has been
phenomenal and amazing got up to speed
in the last like six months really well
and then we brought in our first
customer ever at Clear scope to help us
with marketing at Clear scope which were
basically my two work identities all the
way up until well now
nowadays I I spend I guess a lot more
time thinking more about the intangibles
of everything I think that it's easy to
for me to get lost in the numbers the
ROI the experimentation whatever but
what's been interesting to see play out
is that really a lot of it is not in the
numbers right A lot of it is in the
qualitative I guess is the like the way
that people would associate it is the
the anecdotal right and I'm really
interested in understanding sort of why
people enjoy clear scope over a form of
competitive tools that have like entered
the market and why we have such like
overwhelmingly positive feedback in
comparison to other tools on the market
as far as I can tell from like
competitive intelligence so I'm way more
interested in like thinking through
brand and also just understanding that
it's it's everything sort of like a
butterfly effect
which is weird to say like coming from
somebody who was really deep in in
experimentation AB testing right
statistical significance it's sort of
just like oh well how does somebody like
feel about this and you know why is like
Lexus why do people pay you know a ton
more money for a Lexus in comparison to
a Toyota right it's functionally the
same they get you from point A to point
B
except people feel better when they're
driving Alexus to work or whatever right
and so these days I I guess I'm like
syncing with the team a lot more trying
to like kind of dial in on the
intangibles of what we as a brand can do
which is probably the like the wildest
swing away from like you know oh
segmentations and data and like whatever
but I think it is really important to be
like asking ourselves these questions
especially because what we've seen is
that competitor tools are coming in and
they're saying oh we're like clearscope
but cheaper and also we do X Y and Z
right so people will then come to us and
be like oh well I checked out so and so
and they're cheaper and they do Z we
care about Z or whatever and then you
know like I'll be talking I'll be doing
a demo or kickoff call because I still
keep my hands in those like from time to
time kickoff calls all the time and I'm
just like okay like do we actually care
about Z you know like or is this just a
bell or whistle that competitor X made
up so that they could say that we're
like clear scope but cheaper we do Z
right is this something that people
actually care about and most recently
there's like a lot of Buzz about gpt3
natural language
generation and everyone's kind of
jumping on this like train of like we
will write content for you whether
that's entire sections of content
headings of content questions of content
this is like copy. a conversion. all
that stuff yeah but then SEO tools are
taking their spin on that like literally
and you know having content Spinners pop
up and we're just
like okay but is that actually what
people want or is that cool or what
people say that they want because as
we've seen with just like the product
category mature people will come and be
like oh you know we want we want X and
we'll be okay and we we'll do X and then
later on we'll like look at usage
statistics like man nobody uses X like
people don't actually care about it but
and then to a certain degree this is
what we found with like
gpt3 it's like a it's actually not that
good and
B um it but but be itself like people
are like oh you know copy. or conversion
die like you know the these are cool and
it's like yeah they are cool so saying
it is actually like important but how
much it contributes into like our
platform doesn't seem to be that
important that's like what we found out
recently so we'll like say it on demo
calls be like yeah clear scope uses
gpt3 to do some stuff but then we've
limited the scope of what it does to
like a section within a section within
like a a tab so it does very little but
people just wanted to hear that like oh
clear scope does use gpt3 and so it's
it's weird it's weird it's weird yeah I
I will say like as soon as I saw um some
of these companies come out some of
which are run by friends I had this idea
I'm like all right I've got this little
Pet Project a couple side projects you
know I've got the shiny object syndrome
too of course I'm like all right what if
I just like spun up uh you know I've got
a couple affiliate sites I could just
type three or four sentences about a
Blog topic put it through one of these
gpt3 systems put it in clearos scope
plug in the keywords that it doesn't
have and then just scale the [__] out of
this like you know hundreds of blog
posts and it's kind of like a Content
Farm but I don't even have to hire
Freelancers right doesn't work not at
all not even close so that dream is
definitely like years away probably um
so the promise is there I think like
these tools could be interesting for
like short form copy totally or maybe
things that aren't specific but I had
you know technical articles on uh Cava
it's like this plant root thing yeah
yeah yeah you'd put it through and it
was just full of [__] information
I'm like you can't publish that so
anyway I I that's a little digression in
terms of like the efficacy of some of
these things but the question that I
actually wanted to ask is like that
you're doing all this branding stuff and
this highle research and and kind of
thinking about how you guys
differentiate what answers have you come
up with yeah it's a good question the
answers that we've come up with have
been more questions but some answers so
I'll say okay right if there's all this
stuff and there's a lot of hype around
content there has been a lot of hype
around content optimization we have
gotten as most content optimization
tools have lots of customers but right
that's like saying I think crypto is a
good example in this particular case
that's like saying that you know we just
bought Bitcoin like a few months ago and
it's done well it's like yeah if you
were in content optimization you would
have done well but what we're thinking
then is not the Speculator who just buys
Bitcoin but who are our true fans right
who five years from now will still be
holding Bitcoin is the same is the
question that we're asking ourselves now
right it's like okay we have lots of
businesses that in my opinion should
likely not be a optimal izing content
using a Content Optimizer like a good
example would be like a small local
business right like a a local plumber I
might go oh cool you everyone's talking
about content optimization then I G to
use Clear scope to to rank four plumber
in Austin and we would say well it's not
not gonna help but it's not really going
to help because you don't rank cryp
plumber in Austin by optimizing text on
your page you rank Court it with local
citations nice reviews all that good
stuff but there's a lot of those people
right that are coming in and buying
content optimization tools and I think
that what we've done well is we've tried
our best to
deter all the bad fits right somebody
comes in and they're like Bernard I want
to buy clear scope and then right we'll
go with the plumber example I'll be like
but you're a local plumber like local
SEO and content optimization overlap
maybe like 5 to 10% at best local seos
generally citations blah blah blah blah
blah right and and then if they
ultimately decide to buy that's fine
because I feel like I did kind of go out
of my way to say hey I don't think
you're the best fit for our product and
so after they
cancel when they cancel if they cancel
then somebody might go and say hey Bob
you try clear scope like how was it and
you can imagine that that reaction that
somebody has from the initial
expectation setting they might be like
oh yeah like it was great you know we
talk with the clear scope team they said
it wasn't a great fit I tried it and
yeah lo and behold it was not a great
fit but I think it could work really
well for you know XY or Z whereas you
can imagine from another another tools
persp persective but they just came in
and like double your traffic in 3 months
guaranteed and Bob the plumber is like
okay I'm going to do it and then they go
in with wrong expectations and they buy
the product and then somebody asks that
Bob right now like down the line oh how
was your experience with that tool and
Bob be like oh man it freaking sucks
right they said it was GNA do xire Z it
just did not work at all and you can see
how that that's a wildly different
customer sentiment just from an
expectation like setting perspective So
to that was a longwinded way of saying
right really trying to understand who
our customer is and who our customer is
not right and people who are not our
true customers when they have feedback
when they come in and they they just say
I want to sign up we're not going to say
no you cannot sign up we're going to say
look we don't think it's the best fit
and and then we have to be wary to say
okay those same bases of customers who
are actually not going to be our true
customers 5 years from now they're going
to have feedback they going to be like
Bernard we want the content to write
itself and then we have to look at that
and say well no I don't think you're
like our true customer right you're here
because of the hype I to Wade through
that noise and say no that's not right
right like the true customer is this
like content strategist and content
strategist like you have you know like a
taste of that is they're not going to
say yeah I want the content to write
itself they're G say okay how can I like
be more effective at choosing the right
like angle to position my content how
can I bring in you know the right
structure and the right points they're
not saying yeah I want the content to
write itself so that's like one of the
biggest questions with sort of the
answer is that like okay we believe that
content strategist
are our true customer and you know a
Content strategist can be an SEO that
overlaps it can be a Content marketer
that overlaps and it can be a writer and
that overlaps as well and we say Okay
pure seos are not our Customer because
they're always trying to gain the system
they're the ones thinking oh it would be
cool if content could write itself
because then I could spin up five
different affiliate websites with like
very barely little work and like yeah
but that's not going to work in the Long
Hall so I love that you're you're
essentially looking for the clear scope
hodlers um and that's via like a process
of elimination of sorts or exclusion
which I think a lot of people don't
think about when they think about target
audience and the shows because you see
these headlines that are like email
marketing for everyone it's like no is
it really but yeah like the thing about
Target audiences is you do have to learn
how to say no and it's difficult when
there's a short-term in front of you
which is like for our agency we've been
really critical about that because we
have day jobs and we can't have bad
clients like that's just like a Time
suck that's going to take us away from
our own you know kind of lives and also
those of of like our other clients that
we want to like crush it for so we've
we've come up with little rules and you
know some of them are industry- based or
like you know what what demographic or
like firmographic data there are for
clients um you know so like they've got
to be of a certain size their traffic
has to be this level all that stuff but
we also have qualitative things on calls
where once we hear them we're like uh we
do we want this client and those are the
things that I kind of alluded to before
which is like when they look at it too
much like a immediate test or like
short-term performance Channel such as
paid or um you know if they want to just
dive in and have us write a bunch of
content and they have no strategy in
place and they're not willing to pay for
strategy I'm like you know in those
cases we break amicably and say actually
you should hire these Freelancers here's
a list of them we're probably not right
for you you'll save a bunch of money by
the way too we're using these
Freelancers anyway but it's like having
it's like it's almost confidence like
you have to realize that like there's
going to be more clients this one's not
right for you and by saying no it hurts
in the short term because you might not
make that you know x amount of money but
in the long term it's going to be good
for you which is all to say you know the
podcast name you got to play the long
game you gotta play the long game I
totally yeah and I think think that we
do have the benefit of not being Venture
backed and being profitable and small
and happy as a team and honestly right
that's like a lot of we got a lot of
downward pressure because people come in
and like wow I hear amazing things about
clearco but simply out of my budget and
you know we are the most expensive tool
within content
optimization but the flip side you can
imagine is that we say offer a lower
tier plan and I'm not saying this is
completely out of the question but I'm
saying that this is the flip side and
all of a sudden we get a large influx of
bad fit customers right and bad fit
customers are then going to try it on
their local business and complain that
it doesn't work because it won't really
work for that and that's going to
negatively influence our brand so we
look than at this $170 starter like tier
that we have and so this is great
because it disqualifies a bunch of
really bad fits that are going to eat
customer support time my time training
them all this like overhead and you know
mental
well-being and that right is going to be
an opportunity cost that could have been
better spent in servicing our existing
content strategist that we like yes
these are clear scope todlers for the
Long Haul and that would be really
painful and a shame so it's weird but
that's yeah that that's exactly how we
think the point you had on so it is a
Time suck dealing with some of this
stuff but you had a point on how it it
also influences mental well-being which
I think is an underrated point it's like
you've only got so many hours in a day
you've got so many years you know you're
working on this thing we have a
principle in omnicient it's it's called
this should be fun so if at any point
we're like hating our lives and hating
what we do we're like well why are we
doing this and I think that bad clients
and bad fit uh customers can can
insidiously make that creep up into your
life and it's just much more fun to work
with awesome clients who also like you
and and tell everybody and it's just
like this win-win situation so I don't
know I felt like that was a good point
and is that something that you because
you have an agency um or you you built
an agency before clear scope do you
think you took that lesson from like
actually having to deal with clients on
like a you know a High touch level or
how did you pull this lesson into clear
scope yeah I think that honestly a lot
of that has to do with my
co-founders clarity on what clear scope
is and what we like and what we don't
like and I guess in terms of like
Frameworks an interesting framework to
like sit down and like think about has
been like Myers break I don't know if
you know like Myers Briggs but Myers
Briggs he would be considered the
Mastermind or an
intj which is introverted intuitive
thinking and judging the flip side of
those letters would be extroverted
sensing feeling and perceiving so I am a
extroverted sensing thinking and
perceiving so we basically overlap on
the T but for or you know at least the
framework model we then completely
different on all of the other things and
as somebody who struggles with shiny
object like syndrome I have a hard time
like sussing out what what is good and
what is bad because I can see like oh
you know that could be good and you know
like a very early example would be that
some people a lot of people will ask us
like hey we want domain Authority in
like the competitor review in a clear
scope report and i' be go up to my
co-founder be like hey people want
domain Authority and then I'm like I
mean I could see why people want domain
Authority that makes sense and then he'd
be like no we're not doing domain
Authority be like all right we're not
doing domain Authority I like right back
to you know our customers who have been
asking for it we're not doing domain
Authority and then they're like and now
okay like why aren't we doing domain
Authority he's like domain Authority is
bunk it's a metric that you know tools
have made up that are isn't even
properly sanctioned by Google so what we
want people to trust is the quality of
our recommendations and I don't trust
the domain Authority so I'm not going to
like give domain Authority plus domain
Authority is an SEO thing and we want to
make our tool very like friendly to
writers right people like a writer looks
at domain Authority and they get perhaps
anxious and they're like okay like what
does that mean so we just did never
include a domain Authority and that was
that was that so that's a long-winded
way of saying when we got started with
our
agency uh I was the non-technical guy so
I went out and whined and dined people
and made the sales and he was he was the
product of consult
I mean yeah we would sit down and
strategize on client client work stuff
but ultimately he would be the one who
created the 5200 page deliverable for
because we like scrutinize technical SEO
for large websites you can imagine door
Dash has hundreds of thousands of pages
and that's also where we made our our
margins because if we could go in and
incrementally improve each page by 10 %
by making a change that affects the
entire template of pages then that's a
lot of pages and a lot of revenue for
the customer so we could charge six
figures easily and it would be like a
drop in the bucket for a lot of these
clients and so from the very early days
though he has like had the clarity to
say hey we do SEO for large websites
right like that's it because large
websites value
more they tend to and I think that
there's he just has a lot of clarity
behind like what he believes is best for
the
company because of its like a focus and
other intangible things and I just trust
his his like gut and his Instinct and a
lot of this comes back down to like the
intangibles right I think that you could
sit down and ab test the color of a
button or you could kind of like gut
intuition and say like maybe there
shouldn't be a button in the first
place there should be something else and
I think that he's just like really good
at that whereas I struggle a lot more
with that which is why back to the Myers
Briggs like framework I think we work
together really well because he brings a
lot of like synthesis and opinion and
gut feel to the table whereas I bring
more like like heuristics and
experiential stuff which is the
difference between in the Myers Briggs
framework an INT intuitive and like a
sensing a sensing is like oh what's the
data say was my experience like an
intuitive is more like I feel like the
world should be like this because that's
just how I feel kind of deal and so
that's that's where we both have that
flavor and then we cross on the te right
and so say okay why and then there's a
rational explanation it's like okay yeah
we'll go with that that seems
good that's awesome that you you and I
are the same type of founder I think and
it's it's remarkable how just like
finding your compliment how much that
helps because like what I've realized is
I I don't have a lot of the J
judiciousness and um you know sort of
meticulous focus on operations and
feasibility but I have all these wacky
ideas and just a ton of energy to run
with them so like when David and I get
together David and I have the same goals
and the same values and the same
principles but we have totally different
ways of working and like if we if we
were try to mediate and meet in the
middle we would both be a duded versions
of of ourselves but if we can both let
our freak flags fly then we can
basically come together and Clash it out
and end up with the best possible
product yes so yeah I've I relate to
that heavily actually um there's a book
on this it's called Rock fuel uh it's
about like I think there's an innovator
and integrator it's kind of like the
Steve Jobs and and like wasak kind of
thing um but I always think of it in the
cooler framework which is madmen have
you watched that I've not watched it but
I've read like about it and stuff yeah
there's the Roger Sterling who's just
like the you know go-getter gets the
clients does the Marketing sales all
that stuff there's the Bert Cooper who
like is the operator runs the business
makes sure they're making money and
everything's like running properly and
then Don Draper who's like the creative
genius and just cares so much about the
work that he sometimes forgets
everything else yeah and I feel like
that is just like the ultimate for like
an agency or even like a high touch you
know B2B business oh totally totally I
feel like my co-founder is like the Don
Draper he just pull comes up with stuff
that is honestly like just
completely out sometimes out of the blue
but a lot of the times like just like
huh yeah that is like perfect it's like
for the longest time we struggled with
this idea of like when in clear scope
you improve your your content quality
for those of you that don't know um and
you go from like a C+ to a B minus
however it was very like confusing at
what point your piece of content would
progress from a C+ to a B minus you just
kind of had to include more Concepts and
at some point it happened and
competitive tools would just say oh you
know like use three more of these and
you will progress and people were giving
us feedback like hey I want that to see
that in clear scope and we just sat on
that for like the longest time so oh
should it be a progress bar but like a
progress bar doesn't feel that great and
then one day you'd be like oh is
wouldn't it be great if it just like
surrounded the content grade and like
filled up and I was like oh yeah that
would be perfect and then you know we
did it and feel really good about it but
there's all of these like little little
tiny things that it's just like this
idea of okay
like he'll like analyze something from
360 degrees and then some right it's
like okay what does the customer want
like what do they say they want what do
they actually want what if we just
removed it right it's like then they
wouldn't be asking questions about it
like it's like oh yeah H right or like
what if we just did it like this and I'm
like oh that's crazy but maybe but maybe
not
how do you guys so you have customer
requests you have your own vision and
then you have Google too because you're
operating on you're dependent on like
how they rank things how do you how do
you keep ahead of Trends in terms of
like how Google is like determining what
ranks and what content you know sees the
light a day yeah honestly we have a
pretty strong guiding framework of what
we believe Google is striving towards
which ultimately right Google keeps
saying it it's oh we're just trying to
help the user find what need so it's
like okay let's take that right help the
user find what they need and then that
then guides our product decisions right
is domain Authority gonna help the user
find what they need say I mean in this
current like model and framework it
obviously plays a role but in a farther
future framework not not maybe not at
all right it's like domain Authority is
just it doesn't mean that that's what's
going to help the user find what they
need and still a signal that's this is
likely to help the user find what they
need but not completely the like end
path so we sort of evaluate every
decision on this internal guiding
principle that Google keeps repeating
and we say okay if is content that
writes itself going to help the user
find what they need and then we look at
the content that's been AI generated and
like no it's really not so this is not
what ultimately is going to work but
then we'll say oh right is monitoring
the relevancy of your content over time
gonna help the user find what they need
it's like yeah that certainly so it's
like okay we got to do something about
content inventory monitoring which we
are certainly doing um but then you know
we'll throw out everything else there
people will then like come in and say
okay can I do this and can I do that and
often times right in entrepreneurship
you'll hear the saying the customer is
always right it's like not really not at
all uh but you you do need to make the
the customer feel heard and feel like
they are right so that is back to the
intangibles of of the brand and so we'll
always make the customer feel like their
statements are heard and feel like
they're you know we're listening but
when it comes when push comes to shove
we will say explicitly to some customers
that our philosophy is this and you know
their suggestion or their point just
doesn't seem to jive with what we
believe and you know maybe we shouldn't
be custom or they should be customers of
ours right like a recent example that to
mind is somebody's like Bernard we want
clear scope to help with meta
descriptions I have a pretty strong
viewpoint on this from heris anecdotal
data but there was literally this time
in like Google Web Master tools where
they had HTML improvements as a tab and
and they had missing meta description as
one of the HTML improvements and one day
it was gone like from HT like missing
meta description and Google just no
longer consider that like a problem and
when you inspect Wikipedia they don't
even provide a meta description because
they're just like okay well Google's
gonna figure it out from the body of
content on your page and so then I'm
like this is yeah duh like that's just
what happened so they go okay Bernard
like I see metad description
recommendations and I say like well I
believe that when you optimize the body
of content using Claris scope you're
optimizing your meta description like
it's just happening automatically and
they're like I disagree and I'm like
okay well I disagree with you and if
that's how it goes then maybe you know
you should look for a tool that gives
you recommendations on meta
descriptions and then yeah it's awkward
but it's again it's like we're thinking
about the long game and it's like yeah
if you're thinking about it like that
we're thinking about like this then
maybe it's not work yeah that makes
sense so given all of this understanding
and kind of like the heroics of Google's
long-term game plus kind of the data you
you've seen uh as clearos scope's
founder and as an agency founder if you
were to start a blog today how would you
go about it how would you think about
that
process yeah honestly if I've learned
anything about anything it's it would be
I mean you say start a blog in a fairly
generic sense I'm going to answer yeah a
Blog in a generic sense I would just
write about stuff that I personally care
about at the end of the day why most
projects businesses blogs fail is
because the person loses interest in
whatever it is that they're doing right
and so I would optimize for consistency
and Longevity and understand that if I
kept doing this because I really enjoyed
doing this for the next five years that
yeah my content's probably going to rank
for whatever it is that I'm writing
about for the long game right it's all
about the long game it's like okay if
we're gonna now like you know narrow it
down and make it more I guess like roid
driven and actionable and say okay I
want to start a blog with the purposes
of ranking content in SEO to make
affiliate money or something like that
then I would say okay
well let's study the emerging
Industries like agnostic of my my own
passion right so be like okay uh you
know AI is is taking off and you know
crypto or non-fungible tokens are taking
off so maybe that's a sector right so I
do a lot of analysis on like Google
Trends figure out like what's trending
what's Niche and then say okay well how
big is that like Market likely to be in
the future therefore search volume will
obviously grow in that area because
those are going to be the things that I
think you could quickly capitalize on
without much domain Authority or even
subject matter expertise because they're
so green and that's how I would like
approach building a Blog to make money
in a quick like a short period of time
that's cool I I'll just add there's a
couple resources for the latter in terms
of like finding those Trends there's
like Google Trends obviously and then
Brian Dean has this tool exploding
exploding topics I believe exping topics
and then there's a newsletter from the
hustle called Trends trends.co so they I
think they do a lot with search volume
as well but generally speaking they just
try to find like emerging Trends in
terms of like businesses so if that's
the route somebody would want to go
there's a bunch of resources out there
but to your point on the first one in
terms of like finding something you're
actually interested in I will say that
we found Cava it's like this Emer Trend
there's Cava bars there's one here in
Austin course yeah I've had some so
we're like all right we can jump on this
there's not a lot of content in the
space and we did we wrote like 10 blog
posts they all ranked we're ranking for
what is kaava and Cava bars and all this
stuff and we got bored we don't do it
anymore so I think to your point it it's
something that you kind of have to be
interested in or it has to be just like
purely like what you're doing so this
wasn't like our day job this wasn't our
full-time thing so when push came to
shove and other uh you know things you
know came on our agenda it's like that
took the back burner so in terms of like
how I can actually find time to
functionally write good content it's got
to be about stuff I care about there's
no other way totally totally but yeah I
mean if your jam is sort of like you
know Rank and rent or you know flip it
like rank it and flip it then yeah I
think those are all like like CBD right
three years ago was just like you got in
you wrote stuff you promoted the
affiliate
and a lot of people got out and a lot of
people didn't got burned by medic update
and or whatever but it's a like if you
wanted to really get into the weeds of
SEO that's that's how I did my like
Journey right you like I kind of built a
private blog Network by buying expired
domains like restoring them really you
know writing about all kinds of stuff
that I could care less about because
then you start to just manage the
strategy hire freelance writers to do
them give them clear scope
reports um and that in of itself is like
an interesting exercise and I can get
excited about that but I think nowadays
that would be hard for me to get excited
I also it's probably so it's gonna be
hard to get excited about uh I also
think it's getting harder and harder to
make that a smashing success because I
think that uh with Google's kind of like
long game goals of like creating the
best possible search experience
surfacing the best content it's going to
be harder and harder to do that if
you're not truly an expert but also like
on the receiving end like I I don't know
about you like or most people I can tell
when somebody knows what they're talking
about like when you read a post
especially on like like a fitness blog
is the best example yeah you know when
it's like some healthline.com BS and you
know when it's like somebody who
actually has done the research and like
has you know hit the gym and all this
stuff and like I'm going to follow the
ladder and granted that the former May
rank for a little bit but I just feel
like as a business like if you're really
in it for the long game and not doing
this like repeatedly if this is your one
blog I just feel like that's the way it
kind of has to go like it has to come
from that Authority I agree I agree and
that's where again back to your your
your question if you were to start a
blog that's why I'm like yeah you got to
be you got to be passionate about it you
got to be in it for the long haul
because I see a future algorithm I don't
know how far down the line but that
basically is so good at figuring out
what's what's suspicious and what's not
right I'm sure you people listening here
have Googled best blah and been
presented with pages of junk that like
maybe you're aware of or maybe you're
not like consciously aware of like ah
this is like pros cons like this stock
images like this is junk it's like yeah
I think that stuff's just going to die
like some point in the future and you
know the person holding the the whatever
they're reviewing you look at that and
be like yeah that person like actually
bought that or got a copy of that and
read it and reviewed it and you know
like Amazon's struggling with fake
reviews and whatever but people are
going to figure out like what's what's
signal and what's noise and then you
know in five years if you wanted to game
the system which is sort of like you
know identifying the newest hottest
Trend and sort of it's like kind of
gaming the system that stuff that those
loopholes are are shortening in in cycle
and so when we think about SEO at Clear
scope for ourselves we think okay you
know like how are we going to provide
unique perspectives on things happening
in content in SEO that we find
interesting and perhaps that doesn't get
that much search volume right now but if
it's a unique perspective that comes
true then it will rank right you're like
the one you're positioned in front of
that wave too so you just have like that
first mover advantage and then you've
got like all these terms that everybody
else is going to be competing for that's
that's a brilliant move but on the point
of like the uh the con well the um you
know like the best blank and affiliate
model I also feel like conversion rates
differ depending on like who is telling
you that information too like I've
searched for all those things and like
sometimes I just want a quick answer and
like whatever I'll I'll use that to like
surface the top three or four that I see
but uh think about it if that's coming
from somebody who you already follow
like an Oprah or Tim Ferris or Joe Rogan
it's like you've already built the trust
you listen to their podcast or whatever
and when Tim Ferris recommends you his
[__] Cricut protein Joe Rogan
recommends you like his sauna or
whatever you're like okay they do that
like that is their brand so like I'm
gonna inherently trust what they're what
they're Hawking right now you know
totally totally and so I do honestly
think influencer marketing a lot of
people are going to call it all kinds of
different stuff but I think influencer
marketing
is is the like the future to a certain
degree right it's like that obviously
search is still very relevant and
changing but you you buy from the people
that you trust and respect and
whether that's a Tim Ferris who has a
large audience or your friend who texts
you or your mom right in this like
private message like hey check this out
that's that's where purchasing decisions
are happening right five years ago you
might have gone to wired.com or
techcrunch.com and read you know the
front page because you wanted
more stuff more like news in your life I
feel like we're in an era people just
don't do that right they'll go to a
piece of content within a publication
because their very close friend
Community they subscribe to
influencer linked them to that specific
article and so I do feel like when we
talk about I guess like growth hacking I
think the era of growth hacking and
crappy is products are dying right
because people don't recommend that and
like growth hacking is like like what
information flows too too smoothly and
you hear oh product Le growth it's like
isn't that just a fancy way of saying
like your product doesn't suck like
thank you for saying
that term that is just like I don't it
hasn't bothered me per se uh because it
it is a good practice but it's like what
and the companies who are saying their
product Le growth are never ones with
good products that's that's something
that I've noticed too so yeah little pet
peeve there yeah yeah and it's like oh I
don't know like yeah influencer
marketing it's just like I guess you
could just say it's just word of mouth
right it's like yeah obviously you could
sponsor some stuff and we've done it but
it's only from people who were already
like talking about clear scope to begin
with and we're like oh yeah why don't we
pay you some money to like talk about it
some
more um cool I'll have to I got to wind
down pretty soon I'm going to try to hit
this Jiu-Jitsu class we were talking
about all this like new stuff and like
how you got to like suck at it which
like there's not a worse thing to suck
at than something like Jiu-Jitsu I feel
like so this would be intense um but one
more question that's related to what we
were just talking about with influencers
and blogs and Authority do you have any
uh go-to kind of favorite blogs podcasts
influencers that you follow it could be
in the SEO and content space it could be
whatever um take that as you will
yeah I would say
that I'm not going to list anyone
specifically but just sort of give you a
framework which is that you should just
identify the people that you works for
you right I feel like a lot of people
ask this sort of like question and I
could name people in crypto or I could
name people in you know SEO but it's
like if you care about SEO and you don't
care about crypto it's not really going
to matter and I would say that
Twitter as a general like Channel I'm
actually like bullish on Twitter because
I feel like
Twitter is seeing some sort of a like a
Resurgence of like popularity like
people are more active on it there's
just interesting stuff and it's like
yeah you can pick and choose your own
adventure on on Twitter and you don't
have to like try to grow your own
following to get value out of Twitter so
I would say that I think that's an
interesting place should you want to get
like you know influencers or people that
you might care about like exposure to
them and then I think that will lead you
down this potential Rabbit Hole of back
channels which are going to be private
communities whether they're paid or free
or invite only that
you might want to get like go deeper in
and so you know I'm in an SEO Community
that's paid that's private like at least
two of those and then like three of them
that are free and then I'm in some some
crypto ones those invite only you know
that kind of stuff and it's just because
I am interested in like the
fields and I do derive value from those
but honestly the best stuff is usually
the stuff that you're never going to
hear about and you're only G to get like
invite access like stuff is like those
are going to be like the best ways to
get your get your like fill of
information and I think that you only
get to those when you're really
passionate engaging with the community
and whatever in whatever it is that
you're doing and so I guess the best way
to say it is that the the like the cool
back channels are the ones that you've
like never never hear of I love that I'm
bullish on Twitter too um that's really
cool so um do you have any kind of last
words or like do you want to um point to
places that somebody can find you online
like what your Twitter is um obviously
clear scope.com right doio
yes yeah yeah yeah I mean if you want to
follow what I guess you know clear scope
is is our Twitter Bernard J hang is my
my Twitter pretty responsive on it but
also be fairly let's say professional on
Twitter you're not GNA see much action
if you're looking for Action because
it's sort of the problem with with
Twitter is that you could get cancelled
very quickly you just said something
slightly off so the best way that I
found is that you know you have like a
pseudo Anonymous Twitter and like a lot
of the best news sources and stuff come
from pseudo Anonymous like accounts
right because they don't have to worry
about the repercussions of saying
something potentially
offensive um yeah I would say those are
going to be the best ways to find me
awesome sounds good well thank you
Bernard no thank you it was a complete
Joy chatting as it always is with with
[Music]
you